---
title: "Public and industry knowledge and perceptions of US swine industry castration practices"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-12-22
excerpt: ''
date: 2023-12-22
venue: 'Animal Welfare'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1017/awf.2023.99 '
citation: 'Neary, Jessica M., <b>Adeline P. Guthrie</b>, and Leonie Jacobs (2023). &quot;Public and industry knowledge and perceptions of US swine industry castration practices.&quot; <i>Animal Welfare</i>, 32, e79.'
---

Abstract
======
In the United States (US), surgical castration of male piglets is typically performed without any form of analgesia. This may raise concerns with the public; however, there is no information regarding current public knowledge on swine industry practices in the US. In this study we gained insight into public knowledge and perception on castration with and without analgesia in comparison to knowledge of industry stakeholders on these same topics. Through an online survey, 119 respondents were asked four questions about castration in the US swine industry. Industry respondents were contacted via social media and networking. The general public sample was accessed through Mechanical Turk. Survey responses were categorised by experience (industry vs public). Industry respondents were more aware of practices compared to the general public. Most public respondents were unaware of castration practices and the lack of analgesia use. Respondents from rural communities were more aware of castration practices than (sub)urban communities and more aware of analgesia use than those from urban communities. Those with more education had greater awareness of castration practices (occurrence not frequency). Based on the results from this first US sample, knowledge on industry practices was especially lacking for public respondents, but also for a minority of industry respondents, indicating opportunities for education and further research on the topic.



